<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="glossentry" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> element is the top-level element for a topic
    that defines a glossary term.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>glossaries<indexterm>entries</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm>glossentry
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="rendering-expectations">
      <title>Rendering expectations</title>
      <p>Because the glossary entry specialization is designed for the
        larger task of terminology management, it contains many elements
        that are not intended to be rendered when a glossary is generated.
        In addition, when a collections of glossary entry topics are
        rendered as a guidance for terminology management, generated text
        might be required for ease of reading. Specialized style sheets and
        processing are needed to ensure useful output.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="processing-expectations">
      <title>Processing expectations</title>
      <p>Processing expectations for glossary entry topics are highly implementation-specific and
        will depend on the output format.</p>
      <p>The typical processing for books is to sort and group glossary entries based on the
        localized term, so a back-of-the-book glossary can contain a collated list of terms with the
        definitions of the individual senses of each term indented under the term. The glossary can
        have a different organization in different languages depending on the translation of the
          terms.<draft-comment author="dawnstevens">The phrasing of the first sentence suggests to
          me that we expect the processor to automatically sort the terms alphabetically. Should we
          rephrase?</draft-comment></p>
      <p>One possible implementation of a glossary in online processing is to associate a hotspot
        for mentions of terms in <xmlelement>term</xmlelement> elements and display the definition
        on hover or click. A possible implementation in PDF processing is to define a first-use
        occurrence form of the term with its
        <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080031-0600" content="acronym"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080031-0600"?>shortened
        form<?oxy_insert_end?> and use it in conjunction with
          <xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement> to render a
        spell<?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080017-0600"?>ed<?oxy_insert_end?>-out
        version of the term with its
        <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080039-0600" content="acronym"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080039-0600"?>short
        form<?oxy_insert_end?> on first use within an output, while rendering the
        <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080043-0600" content="acronym"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080043-0600"?>short
        form<?oxy_insert_end?> in all subsequent locations.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierarchy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement>; it is defined in the glossary entry module. The
          <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>; it is defined in the concept module.</p>
    </section>
    <section conkeyref="reuse-topic/attributes" id="attributes"/>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following code samples shows how a glossary entry topic
        provides information about a term that aids in terminology
        management:</p>
      <codeblock><b>&lt;glossentry id="usbfd"></b>
  &lt;glossterm>USB flash drive&lt;/glossterm>
  &lt;glossdef>A small portable drive.&lt;/glossdef>
  &lt;glossBody>
    <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080216-0600" content="&amp;lt;glossPartOfSpeech value=&quot;noun&quot;/&gt;"?>
    &lt;glossUsage>Do not use this term in upper case (for example,  in "USB Flash Drive")
      because that suggests a trademark.&lt;/glossUsage>
    &lt;glossAlt>
      &lt;glossAcronym>UFD&lt;/glossAcronym>
      &lt;gloss<?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080110-0600" content="Status"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080112-0600"?>Usage<?oxy_insert_end?><?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080115-0600" content=" value=&quot;prohibited&quot;/"?>><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080118-0600"?>Do not use. This acronym is commonly used
         to stand for "unique factorization domain."&lt;/glossStatus><?oxy_insert_end?>
    &lt;/glossAlt>
    &lt;glossAlt id="memoryStick">
      &lt;glossSynonym>memory stick&lt;/glossSynonym>
      &lt;glossUsage><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080421-0600"?>Do not use. <?oxy_insert_end?>This <?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080444-0600"?>synonym <?oxy_insert_end?>is a colloquial term.&lt;/glossUsage>
    &lt;/glossAlt>
    &lt;glossAlt>
      &lt;gloss<?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080501-0600" content="Abbreviatio"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080501-0600"?>Acronym<?oxy_insert_end?>n>stick&lt;/glossA<?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080506-0600" content="bbreviation"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080506-0600"?>cronym<?oxy_insert_end?>>
      <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080136-0600" content="&amp;lt;glossStatus value=&quot;prohibited&quot;/&gt;
      "?>&lt;glossUsage><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080426-0600"?>Do not use. <?oxy_insert_end?>This <?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080512-0600"?>short form <?oxy_insert_end?>is too <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080450-0600" content="colloquial"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080450-0600"?>vague<?oxy_insert_end?>.&lt;/glossUsage>
      <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080144-0600" content="&amp;lt;glossAlternateFor href=&quot;#usbfd/memoryStick&quot;/&gt;"?>
    &lt;/glossAlt>
    &lt;glossAlt>
      &lt;glossA<?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080152-0600" content="bbreviation"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080152-0600"?>cronym<?oxy_insert_end?>>flash&lt;/glossA<?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080155-0600" content="bbreviation"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080155-0600"?>cronym<?oxy_insert_end?>>
      <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080201-0600" content="&amp;lt;glossStatus value=&quot;prohibited&quot;/&gt;"?>
      &lt;glossUsage><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080433-0600"?>Do not use. <?oxy_insert_end?>This short form is ambiguous.&lt;/glossUsage>
    &lt;/glossAlt>
  &lt;/glossBody><b>
&lt;/glossentry>
</b></codeblock>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
<?oxy_options track_changes="on"?>