<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="glossSurfaceForm" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement></title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element specifies how the term specified
    by the topic's <xmlelement>glossterm</xmlelement> element should appear in the text. The surface
    form is suitable to introduce the term in new contexts or as the first occurrence in
    text.<?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080555-0600" content="&lt;draft-comment author=&quot;dawnstevens&quot;&gt;I learned a lot more than I really wanted to about the surface form in linguistics to suggest this short description, as opposed to what was there: &quot;an unambiguous presentation of the term that might combine multiple forms.&quot; Surface forms are &quot; the way a linguistic unit (such as a word, phrase, or sentence) appears when it is actually spoken or written, as opposed to its underlying or abstract form.&quot; Surface forms may take into account phonology (to provide stress, intonation, and accent), test and plurals (the surface form of &quot;go&quot; is &quot;goes&quot; in 3rd person singular), and derivational (to change roots of words in various contexts), contextual (I&apos;m might be a surface form of I am in informal speech). Ultimately, in my experience the only thing this is really used for is first-use occurrence of acronyms so they are spelled out. I wonder if we should use that use case only in this definition, rather than a more comprehensive scope. &lt;/draft-comment&gt;"?></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>glossaries<indexterm>surface forms</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>glossentry
            elements<indexterm><xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section id="usage-information">
      <title>Usage information</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element is most often used for terms that
        also specify the <xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement> element. In that context, the
          <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element contains the term in a manner that
        introduces both the term and
        <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080628-0600" content="the acronym"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080628-0600"?>its
        shortened form<?oxy_insert_end?>, so that later references to the term can be replaced with
        the
        <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080634-0600" content="acronym"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080636-0600"?>shortened
        form<?oxy_insert_end?> alone. <note id="note_nkh_yqp_c1c">In some languages, the surface
          form that expands the
          <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080645-0600" content="acronym"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080645-0600"?>shortened
          form<?oxy_insert_end?> in its first use handles the formatting differently than in
          English. For example, in Polish,
          <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080703-0600" content="the"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080703-0600"?>an<?oxy_insert_end?>
          acronym precedes
          <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080706-0600" content="the"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080706-0600"?>its<?oxy_insert_end?>
          expansion. In addition, some languages may not have a corresponding
          <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080709-0600" content="acronym"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080709-0600"?>short
          form<?oxy_insert_end?> for a term, so the <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> and
            <xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement> would be left blank in translated
        content.</note></p>
      <p>See the <xref href="abbreviated-form.dita"><xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement></xref>
        element for a full description of how the surface form is used together with
        <?oxy_delete author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080718-0600" content="acronyms"?><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080718-0600"?>short
        forms, such as acronyms<?oxy_insert_end?>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="specialization-hierarchy">
      <title>Specialization hierarchy</title>
      <p>The <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element is specialized from
          <xmlelement>p</xmlelement>. It is defined in the glossary entry module.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p conkeyref="reuse-attributes/only-universal"/>
    </section>
    <example id="example" otherprops="examples">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following glossary entry topic defines the term "Anti-lock Braking System". Within the
        topic, the <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element provides a version of the term
        that combines both the primary term and the acronym. The content of the
          <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> might be rendered in introductory contexts when
        the glossary entry topic is referenced from an <xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement>
        element.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;glossentry id="abs">
  &lt;glossterm>Anti-lock Braking System&lt;/glossterm><?oxy_insert_start author="dawnstevens" timestamp="20240507T080756-0600"?>
  &lt;glossdef>A safety feature on vehicles used to prevent a wheel lock up and 
    to help operators maintain control of the vehicle.&lt;/glossdef><?oxy_insert_end?>
  &lt;glossBody>
    <b>&lt;glossSurfaceForm>Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)&lt;/glossSurfaceForm></b>
    &lt;glossAlt>
      &lt;glossAcronym>ABS&lt;/glossAcronym>
    &lt;/glossAlt>
  &lt;/glossBody>
&lt;/glossentry></codeblock>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
<?oxy_options track_changes="on"?>